Now we will make the customer's journey
summarized in the case of a restaurant.
We'll think of a restaurant, the
typical restaurant that's close
to a office and we'll think of
that type of customer, the client
who works around and has a break
to go out to eat and what
it does is go to a restaurant
that's close to the office
in a group with your friends
or workmates.
The first thing to do is to define
the entire customer journey.
The customer enters, seeks a table or
is assigned a table, sits, asks
for a drink, asks for food or chooses
food, eats, goes to the bathroom
or goes out, asks for dessert, asks
for coffee, pays, etc.
It is important to identify all
the touch points, so we don'
t lose anything.
Well, we will do an exercise with
this restaurant, a diagnosis
and we will think mainly about
three touch points and also
we will think about the customer
person I have told you that
is someone who works in the offices
around and we will think
about what their motivations are.
We start with the moment they
ask for food.
What are customers wanting?
What they want is to be quick because
they don't want to be waiting because
they're hungry at two and a half
and because they don't have
time to wait and they don'
t want to get bored.
And when the diagnosis was made
it turns out that the customer
experience at this point was bad
and was bad for the two reasons
I told you.
One, because there was to wait
too much because the work
of the waiters, the different
tables, etc. was not optimized,
and because all the customers
arrive at that time.
And the customers also find that
when asked they were bored because
they were going to the same restaurant
for a long time and it turns
out that the letter was always
the same, so the experience
was bad.
What decision did the restaurant make?
Well, what he did is increase the
number of waiters despite that he
actually had a surcharge
and another decision he made
very simple is, in addition to the
fixed letter, adding some
extra per week so that customers
did not get bored.
Now we go to the main
touchpoint, Troncal, in
a restaurant that is the time
when customers eat.
And here was the effort
to identify what customers
want in this type of restaurant.
Well, it turns out that an
increasing percentage of customers
were concerned because, of
course, when eating every day
out they wanted the food to be
healthy, but that the restaurant
had not taken into account.
Obviously everyone appreciates
that food is good, but this
concept of healthy, of
healthy, was growing.
And the restaurant had never
taken it into account, so the
customer experience, of an increasing
percentage of customers,
was being bad.
Therefore, another decision was made,
incorporating healthy dishes.
And finally, we go to the last of
the touchpoints, which is the
time to pay.
It's a time when you've just eaten,
you're already thinking you
want to go back to the office
and what you don't want is to wait.
And here we find that, once again,
the customer experience, the
customer didn't feel good, the
customer experience wasn't good,
because they had to wait too
long, because what was being
given is that at that same
moment, of course, all the
tables were just eating.
What was the solution?
The solution was that it could be paid
in the box.
Then, the waiters derive all customers
to pay the box and the process
of collecting in the box is
much more efficient.
So you finish your coffee or finish
your dessert, what you do is
get up and pay the box without
waiting for the bill to be brought,
without waiting for the dataphone
to be brought, etc.
In the box, the process is much more
efficient.
I think it is a good example
of how to have done customer
journey mapping and exposed
it to the customer's shoes
helped us identify what customers
want at each point, helped
us identify a series of moments
of the truth of key points
in which the experience
was being bad and improved
in a very simple way
that helped improve
the customer
experience.